Adding documentation for TLS registries configuration (#183)
nephio-project/docs: content/en/docs/porch/using-porch/using-authenticated-private-registries.md

Reviewer: I think it would be better to cover each case in separate sections here, it's difficult to follow when the different configuraiton options are mixed together int he explanation.

---
title: "Using authenticated private registries with the Porch function runner"
type: docs
weight: 4
description: ""
---

> The sections below will describe the different configuration options of the function runner pertaining to the image storage location of the kpt functions used by the function runner when rendering of the porch package occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Porch function runner pulls kpt function images from registries and uses them for rendering kpt packages in Porch. The function runner is set up by default to fetch kpt function images from public container registries such as [GCR](https://gcr.io/kpt-fn/) and the configuration options described here are not required for such public registries.

This document describes a number of options that are available for configuring authentication of private registries for the Porch function runner.  
```

> The sections below will describe the different configuration options of the function runner pertaining to the image storage location of the kpt functions used by the function runner when rendering of the porch package occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Porch function runner pulls kpt function images from registries and uses them for rendering kpt packages in Porch. The function runner is set up by default to fetch kpt function images from public container registries such as [GCR](https://gcr.io/kpt-fn/) and the configuration options described here are not required for such public registries.
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> Please note the function runner is setup to run by default with a public container registry such as [GCR](https://gcr.io/kpt-fn/). No further configuration is required if that is the intended use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> However if a more customized setup is required please see the below configuration options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{% /alert %}}

## Configuring function runner to operate with private container registries

> If you wish to have a private container registry to store your kpt functions either online e.g. (Github's GHCR) or locally e.g. (Harbor or Jfrog) requiring authentication (username/password or token) then see below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how set up authentication for a private container registry storing kpt functions online e.g. (Github's GHCR) or locally e.g. (Harbor or Jfrog) that require authentication (username/password or token).
```

> To enable the Porch function runner to pull kpt function images from authenticated private registries, the system requires:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable pulling of kpt function images from authenticated private registries by the Porch function runner the system requires:
```

To enable the Porch function runner to pull kpt function images from authenticated private registries, the system requires:

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> Please note sections 4, 5 and 6 are only required if your private registries are set up to use TLS with either self signed or custom/local CA's

Reviewer 2: Question discussed and content agreed upon - OK to resolve

{{% /alert %}}

> 1. Creating a kubernetes secret using a JSON file according to the Docker config schema, containing valid credentials for each authenticated registry.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Creating a Kubernetes secret using a JSON file according to the Docker config schema, containing valid credentials for each authenticated registry.
```

2. Mounting this new secret as a volume on the function runner.

> 3. Enabling the external registries feature, providing the path and name of the mounted secret to the function runner using the arguments `--enable-private-registry`, `--registry-auth-secret-path` and `--registry-auth-secret-name` respectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Enabling the external registries feature, providing the path and name of the mounted secret to the function runner using the arguments *--enable-private-registry*, *--registry-auth-secret-path* and *--registry-auth-secret-name* respectively.
```

> 4. Creating a kubernetes secret using the TLS information for the registry you wish to use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Creating a Kubernetes secret using the TLS information for the registry you wish to use.
```

> 3. Enabling the external registries feature, providing the path and name of the mounted secret to the function runner using the arguments *--enable-private-registry*, *--registry-auth-secret-path* and *--registry-auth-secret-name* respectively.

Reviewer 2: Looks good - OK to resolve

> 4. Creating a Kubernetes secret using the TLS information for the registry you wish to use.

Reviewer 2: Looks good - OK to resolve

> 5. Mounting the secret containing the registries TLS information to the function runner similarly to step 2.

Reviewer 2: Looks good - OK to resolve

> 6. Enabling the TLS feature and providing the path of the mounted secret to the funtion runner using the arguments `--enable-private-registry` and `--tls-secret-path` respectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. Enabling the TLS feature and providing the path of the mounted secret to the function runner using the arguments *--enable-private-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* respectively.
```

> 6. Enabling the TLS feature and providing the path of the mounted secret to the function runner using the arguments *--enable-private-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* respectively.

Reviewer 2: Looks good - OK to resolve

type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
```

A typical secret containing TLS information will take on the a similar format to the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: <TLS_SECRET_NAME>
  namespace: porch-system
data:
  ca.crt: base64_encoded_ca.crt_data
  tls.crt: base64_encoded_tls.crt_data
  tls.key: base64_encoded_tls.key_data
type: kubernetes.io/tls
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
The function runner will look specifically for a *ca.crt* or *ca.pem* file for TLS transport and so the ca TLS data must use that key/file naming.
{{% /alert %}}

> Next you must mount the secrets as a volume on the function runner deployment. Add the following snippet to the Deployment object in the *2-function-runner.yaml* file noting that the last entries in the `volumes` and `volumeMounts` fields are only required for TLS private registries:

Reviewer 2: Looks good - OK to resolve

      secretName: <TLS_SECRET_NAME>
```

You may specify your desired paths for each `mountPath:` so long as the function runner can access them.

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
The chosen `mountPath:` should use its own, dedicated sub-directory, so that it does not overwrite access permissions of the existing directory. For example, if you wish to mount on `/var/tmp` you should use `mountPath: /var/tmp/<SUB_DIRECTORY>` etc.
{{% /alert %}}

> he *--enable-tls-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* variables are only required if a private registry has TLS enabled. They indicate to the function runner that it should attempt authentication to the registry using TLS, and should use the TLS certificate information found on the path provided in *--tls-secret-path*.

Reviewer 2: Lost the T at the start of this line
```suggestion
The *--enable-tls-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* variables are only required if a private registry has TLS enabled. They indicate to the function runner that it should attempt authentication to the registry using TLS, and should use the TLS certificate information found on the path provided in *--tls-secret-path*.
```

The chosen `mountPath:` should use its own, dedicated sub-directory, so that it does not overwrite access permissions of the existing directory. For example, if you wish to mount on `/var/tmp` you should use `mountPath: /var/tmp/<SUB_DIRECTORY>` etc.
{{% /alert %}}

> The `--enable-tls-registry` and `--tls-secret-path` variables are only required if the user has a private TLS registry. they are used to indicate to the function runner that it should try and autenticate to the registry with TLS transport and should use the TLS certificate information found on the path provided in `--tls-secret-path`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The *--enable-tls-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* variables are only required if the user has a private TLS registry. they are used to indicate to the function runner that it should try and authenticate to the registry with TLS transport and should use the TLS certificate information found on the path provided in *--tls-secret-path*.
```

> The *--enable-tls-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* variables are only required if the user has a private TLS registry. they are used to indicate to the function runner that it should try and authenticate to the registry with TLS transport and should use the TLS certificate information found on the path provided in *--tls-secret-path*.

Reviewer 2: Looks good. Discussed the question offline - thanks for the explanation of the fallback flow where it tries "provided TLS certificates" -> "default/well-known TLS certificates" -> "last-ditch HTTP"
(OK to resolve)

  - --enable-private-registry=true
  - --registry-auth-secret-path=/var/tmp/auth-secret/.dockerconfigjson
  - --registry-auth-secret-name=<SECRET_NAME>
  - --enable-tls-registry=true
  - --tls-secret-path=/var/tmp/tls-secret/
  - --functions=/functions
  - --pod-namespace=porch-fn-system
```

The `--enable-private-registry`, `--registry-auth-secret-path` and `--registry-auth-secret-name` arguments have default values of *false*, */var/tmp/auth-secret/.dockerconfigjson* and *auth-secret* respectively; however, these should be overridden to enable the functionality and match user specifications.

> The `--enable-tls-registry` and `--tls-secret-path` arguments have default values of *false* and */var/tmp/tls-secret/* respectively; however these should be configured by the user and are only necessary when the user has a private TLS registry.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The *--enable-tls-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* arguments have default values of *false* and */var/tmp/tls-secret/* respectively; however these should be configured by the user and are only necessary when the user has a private TLS registry.
```

> The *--enable-tls-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* arguments have default values of *false* and */var/tmp/tls-secret/* respectively; however these should be configured by the user and are only necessary when the user has a private TLS registry.

Reviewer 2: Missing comma. Also wording nitpick - the user won't necessarily "have" (own/possess) the registry they're trying to make their function use.
```suggestion
The *--enable-tls-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* arguments have default values of *false* and */var/tmp/tls-secret/* respectively; however, these should be configured by the user and are only necessary when using a private registry secured with TLS.
```

Reviewer 2: Looks good - OK to resolve

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> It is vital that the user has configured the node which the function runner is operating on with the certificate information which is used in the `<TLS_SECRET_NAME>`. If this is not configured correctly even if the certificate is correct the function runner will be able to pull the image but the krm function pod spun up to run the function will error out with a *x509 certificate signed by unknown authority*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is vital that the user has configured the node which the function runner is operating on with the certificate information which is used in the *<TLS_SECRET_NAME>*. If this is not configured correctly even if the certificate is correct the function runner will be able to pull the image but the krm function pod spun up to run the function will error out with a *x509 certificate signed by unknown authority*.
```

> It is vital that the user has configured the node which the function runner is operating on with the certificate information which is used in the *<TLS_SECRET_NAME>*. If this is not configured correctly even if the certificate is correct the function runner will be able to pull the image but the krm function pod spun up to run the function will error out with a *x509 certificate signed by unknown authority*.

Reviewer 2: Do we know any documentation we could link to here for configuring the node with certificates? Otherwise, wording nitpicks and breaking the second sentence up a bit:
```suggestion
It is vital that the user has pre-configured the Kubernetes node which the function runner is operating on with the same TLS certificate information as is used in the *<TLS_SECRET_NAME>* secret. If this is not configured correctly, then even if the certificate is correctly configured in the function runner, the kpt function will not run - the function runner will be able to pull the image, but the KRM function pod created to run the function will fail with the error *x509 certificate signed by unknown authority*.
```
(not sure about capitalising "KRM"... is it generally used as a full acronym?)

Reviewer 2: Looks good - thanks for discussion to resolve the question of documentation - heavily dependent on specific cluster/implementation. OK to resolve.

The `--enable-private-registry`, `--registry-auth-secret-path` and `--registry-auth-secret-name` arguments have default values of *false*, */var/tmp/auth-secret/.dockerconfigjson* and *auth-secret* respectively; however, these should be overridden to enable the functionality and match user specifications.

The *--enable-tls-registry* and *--tls-secret-path* arguments have default values of *false* and */var/tmp/tls-secret/* respectively; however, these should be configured by the user and are only necessary when using a private registry secured with TLS.

> It is important to note that enabling TLS registry functionality makes the function runner attempt connection to the registry provided in the porch file using the mounted tls certificate. if this certificate is invalid for the provided registry it will attempt again but with the Intermediate Certificates stored on the machine for use in TLS with "well-known websites" e.g. Github. If this also fails then it will attempt without TLS as a last resort which if also failed will error out letting the user know the error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is important to note that enabling TLS registry functionality makes the function runner attempt connection to the registry provided in the porch file using the mounted TLS certificate. If this certificate is invalid for the provided registry, it will try again using the Intermediate Certificates stored on the machine for use in TLS with "well-known websites" (e.g. GitHub). If this also fails, it will attempt to connect without TLS: if this last resort fails, it will return an error to the user.
```
